README.md, before:

Geometric Algebra with JS
=========================

Copyright 2013 Michael Nelson <michael@liveandletlearn.net>

Geometric Algebra provides a different way of thinking about vectors,
geometry and its applications to physics. You can read more on the
[Wikipedia article](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geometric_algebra)
but be warned that it gets (unnecessarily) complicated rather quickly.
I've created this JavaScript port of an
[old Python geometric algebra library](https://launchpad.net/pymultivector)
that I wrote a few years ago with the aim of eventually creating an
interactive introduction to Geometric Algebra - highlighting it's
simplicity and beauty.


Getting started
---------------

```
$ git clone https://github.com/absoludity/geometricalgebra.js.git
$ npm install
$ bin/shell
```

This will drop you in a nodejs REPL with the multivector library already
loaded into the namespace as mv, where you can create vectors:

```javascript
var v1 = new mv.MultiVector("2x + 3y");
var v2 = new mv.MultiVector("x + 2y");
```

and multiply them together:

```javascript
v1.mul(v2).toString()
'8 + 1xy'
```

For example, if you multiply two vectors of unit length together,
your can use the result to rotate any other vectors. Here we'll
create a unit vector along the x-axis, and a unit vector that is
45 degrees towards the y-axis. In this case
it's easier to create the terms explicitly rather than relying on
the parsing of a string:

```javascript
var x = new mv.MultiVector([new mv.MultiVectorTerm(1, [1])]);
var x45y = new mv.MultiVector([
    new mv.MultiVectorTerm(1.0 / Math.sqrt(2), [1]),
    new mv.MultiVectorTerm(1.0 / Math.sqrt(2), [2]),
]);
```

Verify that the second vector is indeed unit length (well, with
floating-point errors) and then create the rotation by simply
multiplying the two vectors:
```javascript
x45y.mul(x45y).toString()
'0.9999999999999998'

var rotate45 = x45y.mul(x);
rotate45.toString()
'0.7071067811865475 - 0.7071067811865475xy'
```

We can now apply the rotation one or more times to see the results:

```javascript
rotate45.mul(x).toString()
'0.7071067811865475x + 0.7071067811865475y'
rotate45.mul(rotate45).mul(x).toString()
'0.9999999999999998y'
rotate45.mul(rotate45).mul(rotate45).mul(x).toString()
'-0.7071067811865474x + 0.7071067811865474y'
```

Running unit tests
------------------

You can run the unit-tests with:
```
$ bin/grunt test
```

Or if you run `bin/grunt` in a console, it will by default run tests
and lint the code on each file save.

Debugging test output is much easier in a browser - the same tests
will render in your favourite browser simply by opening the tests/index.html file.


Using geometricalgebra.js in the browser
----------------------------------------

This module uses the excellent [RequireJS](http://requirejs.org/) library
to keep module loading sane. You can view the
[tests/main.js](tests/main.js) which is loaded by the
[tests/index.html](tests/index.html) for an example. With a similar setup
you can use the multivector module with:

```javascript
require(['multivector'], function(mv) {
   var myvec = new mv.MultiVector("x + y");
   // etc.
});
```

Commit message:

Don't test against nodejs 0.6. Add build status to readme.

README.md, after:

Geometric Algebra with JS
=========================

Copyright 2013 Michael Nelson <michael@liveandletlearn.net>

Geometric Algebra provides a different way of thinking about vectors,
geometry and their applications to physics. You can read more on the
[Wikipedia article](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geometric_algebra)
but be warned that it gets (unnecessarily) complicated rather quickly.
I've created this JavaScript port of an
[old Python geometric algebra library](https://launchpad.net/pymultivector)
that I wrote a few years ago with the aim of eventually creating an
interactive introduction to Geometric Algebra - highlighting it's
simplicity and beauty.


Getting started
---------------

```
$ git clone https://github.com/absoludity/geometricalgebra.js.git
$ npm install
$ bin/shell
```

This will drop you in a nodejs REPL with the multivector library already
loaded into the namespace as mv, where you can create vectors:

```javascript
var v1 = new mv.MultiVector("2x + 3y");
var v2 = new mv.MultiVector("x + 2y");
```

and multiply them together:

```javascript
v1.mul(v2).toString()
'8 + 1xy'
```

For example, if you multiply two vectors of unit length together,
your can use the result to rotate any other vectors. Here we'll
create a unit vector along the x-axis, and a unit vector that is
45 degrees towards the y-axis. In this case
it's easier to create the terms explicitly rather than relying on
the parsing of a string:

```javascript
var x = new mv.MultiVector([new mv.MultiVectorTerm(1, [1])]);
var x45y = new mv.MultiVector([
    new mv.MultiVectorTerm(1.0 / Math.sqrt(2), [1]),
    new mv.MultiVectorTerm(1.0 / Math.sqrt(2), [2]),
]);
```

Verify that the second vector is indeed unit length (well, with
floating-point errors) and then create the rotation by simply
multiplying the two vectors:
```javascript
x45y.mul(x45y).toString()
'0.9999999999999998'

var rotate45 = x45y.mul(x);
rotate45.toString()
'0.7071067811865475 - 0.7071067811865475xy'
```

We can now apply the rotation one or more times to see the results:

```javascript
rotate45.mul(x).toString()
'0.7071067811865475x + 0.7071067811865475y'
rotate45.mul(rotate45).mul(x).toString()
'0.9999999999999998y'
rotate45.mul(rotate45).mul(rotate45).mul(x).toString()
'-0.7071067811865474x + 0.7071067811865474y'
```

Running unit tests
------------------

You can run the unit-tests with:
```
$ bin/grunt test
```

Or if you run `bin/grunt` in a console, it will by default run tests
and lint the code on each file save.

Debugging test output is much easier in a browser - the same tests
will render in your favourite browser simply by opening the tests/index.html file.

Current build status: [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/absoludity/geometricalgebra.js.png)](https://travis-ci.org/absoludity/geometricalgebra.js)



Using geometricalgebra.js in the browser
----------------------------------------

This module uses the excellent [RequireJS](http://requirejs.org/) library
to keep module loading sane. You can view the
[tests/main.js](tests/main.js) which is loaded by the
[tests/index.html](tests/index.html) for an example. With a similar setup
you can use the multivector module with:

```javascript
require(['multivector'], function(mv) {
   var myvec = new mv.MultiVector("x + y");
   // etc.
});
```
